# Kubernetes architecture

### API server
contains UI , API and CLI

### Controller Manager

### Scheduler
decides which node new pod should be scheduled

## Pod 
Smallest unit in kubernetes
Abstraction over container
Each pod gets its own ip address
Usually 1 application per pod
Pod has shared network, shrared volume, 1 or multiple containers
Usually 1 pod = 1 container

## Node
A virtual or physical machine
A Node has many pods, a pod runs on a node
Multiple nodes for high availability.
Inside a node there is
1) kubelet
2) kube-proxy
3) container runtime
Master Node has API server

## Cluster
This makes a cluster: Master Node --> multiple worker Node

## Lifecycle of 

## Service
an IP address that will attached to the pod
pod and service are not connected. so if pod dies, service will stay
Internal service - cant open from outside
URL = node-ip:port
Service cant also act as load balancer

## Ingress
Request goes to ingress then forwards to the service

## Configmap
External configuration to application.

## Secret
External configuration to application But more secure
stored in base64 encrypted format

## Volume
Used for data storage
If pod restarted , data would be gone, no persistence
Volume is used for persistence
Could be on the same node, or external storage which is not part of the k8 cluster
Kubernetes do not take care of data



## Deployment
Blueprint for pods
Specify how many replicas you want
Pod is a layer of abstraction on top of container and deployment is an abstraction on top of pod

## StatefulSet
Nodes with persistence eg database are stateful, if they die, they cant be read from another node.
Best practice is to put the DB outside of the Kubernetes.
Alternatively you can use StatefulSet.
Database should be created using StatefulSet.
StatefulSet make sure db read or write is to be sync.
